README.md, before:

# MTIProteinImputation

# Installation

1. ```Create a virtual environment using python 3.9```
2. ```Activate venv```
3. ```pip install -r requirements.txt```

# Usage

Disclaimer:  
To replicate all results and findings **ALL** scripts have to be executed in order.
Additionally, experiments for the Elastic Net, LGBM and Auto Encoder have to be repeated at least 30x, which can take 2 weeks plus.


## Data Preparation

To create all spatial features, run the following script from the root dir:
```./src/data_preparation/prepare_spatial_data.sh```


## Experiments

### Elastic Net
To run the Elastic Net experiments, run the following script from the root dir:
```./src/experiments/elastic_net/run_experiments.sh```

To specify the number of repetitions, 
add the number at the end of the script as an additional parameter.

E.g.  
```./src/experiments/elastic_net/run_experiments.sh 30 ```
This will run the experiments 30 times.

### LGBM
To run the LGBM experiments, run the following script from the root dir:
```./src/experiments/lgbm/run_experiments.sh```


### Auto Encoder
To run the Auto Encoder experiments, run the following script from the root dir:
```./src/experiments/auto_encoder/run_experiments.sh```


## Evaluation

To generate the evaluation results, run the following script from the root dir: 

### EN
```python3 src/cleanup/combine_en_scores.py```

### LGBM & AE



# Plotting

To create the figures of the manuscript, **ALL** experiments have to be executed first.
We recommend to execute every experiment at least 30x, which can take 2 weeks plus.

Commit message:

Core: Add auto encoder scripts, improved EN scripts and new LGBM experiment script

README.md, after:

# MTIProteinImputation

# Installation

1. ```Create a virtual environment using python 3.9```
2. ```Activate venv```
3. ```pip install -r requirements.txt```

# Usage

Disclaimer:  
To replicate all results and findings **ALL** scripts have to be executed in order.
Additionally, experiments for the Elastic Net, LGBM and Auto Encoder have to be repeated at least 30x, which can take 2 weeks plus.


Run this scripts from the root dir:  
```./run_all.sh```

This script will run all experiments and scripts in order as well as generating the figures.  
**Warning** This script will take a long time to execute.  


If you wish to execute only parts of the research use the scripts below.

## Data Preparation

To create all spatial features, run the following script from the root dir:
```./src/data_preparation/prepare_spatial_data.sh```


## Experiments

### Elastic Net
To run the Elastic Net experiments, run the following script from the root dir:
```./src/en/run_experiments.sh```

To specify the number of repetitions, 
add the number at the end of the script as an additional parameter.

E.g.  
```./src/en/run_experiments.sh 30 ```
This will run the experiments 30 times.

### LGBM
To run the LGBM experiments, run the following script from the root dir:
```./src/lgbm/run_experiments.sh```


### Auto Encoder
To run the Auto Encoder experiments, run the following script from the root dir:
```./src/ae/run_experiments.sh```

To specify the number of repetitions, 
```./src/ae/run_experiments.sh 30 ```
This will run the experiments 30 times.


## Evaluation

To generate the results, run the following script from the root dir: 

### EN
```python3 src/cleanup/combine_en_scores.py```

### LGBM & AE



# Plotting

To create the figures of the manuscript, **ALL** experiments have to be executed first.
We recommend to execute every experiment at least 30x, which can take 2 weeks plus.
